xspeakfree is a Tcl/Tk (wish) frontend to Speak Freely.

For more information about Speak Freely see:
	http://www.fourmilab.ch/

For more information about Tcl/Tk see:
	http://www.scriptics.com/

I am not the author of either of these packages.

I recommend version 8.0 of both Tcl and Tk, however there is little
reason an older version shouldn't work.

Change History:
	See the file HISTORY

To Be Done:
	See the file TODO

Requirements:
	wish (Tcl/Tk), suggested version 8.0p2
	sfspeaker and sfmike, suggestion version 6.1c
	mkfifo (your kernel must support fifos)
	/tmp must be writable by the user using xspeakfree

Installing:
	See the file INSTALL

Using xspeakfree:

	There is no online help as its very simple and similiar to 
	the Windows version of Speak Freely.  If you have a problem
	using the program, email me and I will try to be of assitance.

	xspeakfree executes a file on startup, its called
	".xspeakfree.rc" in your HOME directory.  This file is NOT a
	shell script, its a Tcl script source'd in though the Tcl
	interpreter.
	
	To connect to a remote host and send audio, either go to
	connection and select "New" and type in the host name, or
	click on their name in the Target Host list with Button-3
	(right mouse button) and select "Connect to host".
	This will cause any current sfmike to exit and a new one to
	start with the current settings sending audio to the newly
	selected host.  Clicking on an already selected host name is
	a nop.
	
	As hosts connect to your sfspeaker, they will be added to the
	host list automatically.  As hosts disconnect, they will not be
	removed from the list.  This is a change from its previous
	behavior of removing a host from the list after a disconnect.

	Check out the Options menu.  It should be self explanatory.
	If its not, let me know.
	
OS Features:

	If you are on an SGI, you will note there is an "Irix" menu on
	the menubar.  Any other OS this should be omitted.

	The only special support for Irix right now is launching the
	Audio Panel directly from xspeakfree.  I'd like to add more
	support than that, especially for ther OS's.

	If people can send me what options they want for what OS, as
	well as the output of just "uname" for their OS - or some
	other method of dertermining from a shell the OS type, as well
	as how to do the options (ie I have NO CLUE how to control
	volume on a Sparc Station so you have to tell me) I'll 
	try to add in the support for that OS.

.xspeakfree.rc file:

	This file is executed right before the window appears, after
	all defaults have been programmed.  This way you can override
	any default settings, configure your audio hardware, etc.

	In order to execute a shell command, simply prefix the line
	with a "exec", ie on my SGI my .xspeakfree.rc file has this line
	in it to configure my input port for the microphone:

	exec apanel -nodisplay -nofork -defaultout AnalogOut2 -device
	AnalogOut2 -gain 7.5 -rate 8000 -unmute

	This has the effect of running the program apanel with that
	mess of arguments.  =)

	I'm not going to help you with Tcl, go look on the web, there
	are plenty of online manpages there.  But here's a list of the
	variables you can modify and what effect they will have:
	
	All defaults for these variables are the normal Speak Freely
	software defaults.  =)

	Speaker(port) -- default port for sfspeaker to listen on

	Speaker(args:jitter) -- jitter setting, must be the full
		commandline value, ie "-J2000" for 2 seconds.

	Speaker(args:disable_remote_ring) -- set to "-n" to disable
		remote ring, " " to turn this feature off.

	Speaker(:record:onoff) -- set to 1 to record audio,
		0 to not.  default is 0.
	
	Speaker(:record:file) -- set to the file path to store
		recorded audio in.  ignored unless Speaker(:record:onoff)
		is set to 1.

	Speaker(:record:append) -- set to "+" to append to record files
		instead of overwriting.  set to "" to overwrite.

	Speaker(args:user) -- additonal arguments for sfspeaker

	Speaker(:crypt:method) -- set to " " to use none,
		"-O" for file, "-I" for IDEA, "-K" for DES
		and "-Z" for PGP pass phrase.

	Speaker(:crypt:-I) -- IDEA string
	Speaker(:crypt:-K) -- DES string
	Speaker(:crypt:-Z) -- PGP pass phrase
	Speaker(:crypt:-O) -- File path
	
	Mike(args:simplecompression) -- set to "-C" to turn on simple
		compression, set to " " to turn it off.  Yes, its off
		value is a space.

	Mike(args:compression) -- set to "-N" to turn off all
		compression, set to the appropiate sfmike argument for
		that compression setting.  ie "-T" will turn on GSM,
		-LPC10R1 will set up LPC10, one copy.  Default is GSM

	Mike(args:protocol) -- set to " " for Speak Freely protocol,
		otherwise set to the sfmike argument for the protocl
		you want.

	Mike(args:user) -- additional arguments for sfmike, provided
		just in case.

	To set one of these variables, you can use the following
	syntax:

		set <variable name> "new value"

	ie:
		set Mike(args:compression) "-LPC"

	to set the default compression as LPC.
	
	LWL information is taken from the environment variables:
		SPEAKFREE_LWL_TELL -- comma seperated list of hosts
		SPEAKFREE_ID -- information of the format of:
			"fullname:email:phone:location"

.xspeakfree.hostlist
	
	This file is parsed at startup, it is NOT a Tcl file, rather a
	plain text file containg two types of lines:  comments and
	hostnames.  comment lines begin with a '#'.  host names look
	like:

	hostname	comment

	these hostnames are loaded into the target host list at
	startup and the comment field is placed in parens next to the
	name.  ie a line like this in .xspeakfree.hostlist:

	nj5.injersey.com	Shawn Pearce

	becomes:

	nj5.injersey.com (Shawn Pearce)

	in the host list.
	
	This file is NOT modified by the program, it is to be modified
	by the user.  Perhaps in the future I will make it modifiable
	through the program.

Main Web Site:

	http://www.spearce.org/projects/xspeakfree/

Author
	Shawn Pearce
	<spearce@spearce.org>
